DOC-3329: Premium Plugins Installation and Bundling Documentation for NPM (#3928)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/creating-an-icon-pack.adoc

= Create an icon pack for {productname}
:navtitle: Create an icon pack
:description_short: Introducing icon pack creation.
:description: How to create a custom icon pack.
:keywords: create, creator, icon

== Overview

This guide provides comprehensive coverage of creating, building, and deploying custom icon packs, including solutions to common issues. It details two approaches:

* The inline approach, for adding a small number of custom icons

> * The icon file approach, using the Icon Pack Template project to easily generate the required output file from a folder of SVGs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The manual approach, for adding a small number of custom icons
* Using the Icon Pack Template tool to easily generate the required output file from a folder of SVGs.
```
I know this is my own copy but I changed the headings below and forgot to update this apparently >_>

Author: Also added a link to the Template tool for this.

== How Icons Work in {productname}

> A {productname} icon pack is a JavaScript construct containing strings of link:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG[SVG's]. Icon packs are often kept in separate files, but can be inlined if needed. An icon pack can be used to add one or more custom icons or to replace some or all of the default {productname} icons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A {productname} icon pack is a JavaScript construct containing strings of link:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG[SVGs]. Icon packs are often kept in separate files, but can be inlined if needed. An icon pack can be used to add one or more custom icons or to replace some or all of the default {productname} icons.
```
?

[source,javascript]
----
tinymce.IconManager.add('custom-pack-name', {
  icons: {
    'bold': '<svg width="24" height="24">...</svg>', 
    'italic': '<svg width="24" height="24">...</svg>',
    'custom-icon': '<svg width="24" height="24">...</svg>',
    // ... more icons
  }
});
----

== Creating an icon pack manually

When adding only a few icons, it may be easier to manually configure the new icon pack than to use the Icon Pack Template tool. To do this:

. Gather the SVG files for the new icons. Extract their content string, e.g. `+<svg width="24" height="24">...</svg>+`
. Call `+tinymce.IconManager.add()+`
. Specify the icon pack name as the first argument
. The second argument is an object, with key `+icons+` and a nested object containing the new icons with their names and SVG strings as their keys and values.

The new icons can then be used by name within {productname}.

[IMPORTANT]
====
*Icon Override:* If custom icons have the same name as a default {productname} icon, they will override the default icon.
====

> This JavaScript can be included as a separate icon file or inlined beside the application's `+tinymce.init()+` call. Configure {productname} to load the icon pack and possibly where from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This JavaScript can be included as a separate icon file or inlined beside the application's `+tinymce.init()+` call. Configure {productname} to load the icon pack and, if necessary, where from.
```
do we want to link to the other page with info about the options here too?
